### US2SWEdiff
Shear Wave Elastography (SWE) images provides tumor elasticity information and therefore is important in clinical diagnosis of tumor malignancy. However, SWE images are currently hard to collect and access. On the contrary, ultrasound (US) images, are already widespread and assist doctors to distinguish tumor malignancy with its special tissue texture, but usually induce misclassification. Therefore, generating SWE images from corresponding US images is valuable. Nevertheless, such task has not examined with generative AI approaches. In this work, we aim to fill this research gap with two state-of-the-art approaches corresponding to conditional latent diffusion model (cLDM) and conditional generative adversarial network (cGAN), which are ControlNet and pix2pixHD. To pursue the best representation of breast tumors’ tissue texture for the guidance of the generation process, the original US image and its corresponding two types of edges (Canny edge, Laplacian edge) are examined. Our evaluation results of generated images by these methods show ControlNet conditioned on Canny edge has the highest FID, thus selected for building our “US2SWEdiff” model. With “US2SWEdiff”, we generate SWE images from corresponding US images in two public dataset of breast tumor, “BUSI” and “Breast-Lesions-USG”, and build a classification model to predict the tumor malignancy respectively. Results show significant performance improvement compared to classification model based on US images with our best model selected as “SWEBreCA-Pred”. To facilitate the usage, we constructed a gradio interface incorporated with “US2SWEdiff” and a user-friendly webserver incorporated with “SWEBreCA-Pred” with a database of generated SWE images. Related codes have been available on github. 
